# 1. Introduction

## What's an operating system
Program that is in charge of managing the computer hardware, 
software resources and provides services to other programs. 
It provides and interface between the software and the physical 
resources of the machine.

## Functions of an operating system
- **Managing resources**: 
Usually there are multiple processes that want access to the computer resources. 
The job of the OS is to assign each process which resources it can use and when.
It has to guarantee that one job doesn't interfere with another one and that
it keeps its information private.
It also measures the amount of resources each process is using.

- **Extended machine**: The OS offers a series of APIs so that the programs can run
without having to worry about the management of the hardware and securely.
The functions of the extended machine can be divided in 4 categories:
  - **Program execution**: The OS includes services to launch the execution of other programs,
  by creating a new process, or to stop their execution, by killing the process.
  - **I/O operations**: The OS services offer an abstraction layer to interact with 
  the I/O (Input/Output) devices.
  - **File operations**: It allows creating, deleting, renaming, etc. files.
  - **Memory services**: Services that allow the programs to request or return memory.
  - **Communication and synchronization between services**: Communication services allow 
  the communication between processes (e.g. the Unix pipe which allows communication between 
  processes running in the same machine or a socket with allows the communication between processes running in remote machines).
  Synchronization services allow the processes to run in order. 
  - **Error detection and handling**: Analyzes and treats the errors detected by the hardware.

- **User Interface (UI)**: It allows the user to interact with the OS and the programs. E.g. the shell or a desktop environment.
