# Processes, Threads, Containers

## Processes
A process is a program that is executed by the operating system.

A process from its creation to its completion goes through different phases:
- **New**: The process has just been created.
- **Ready**: After being created the process directly goes into the Ready stage.
  This stage tells the OS that the process is ready for execution.
- **Running**: When a process that is ready gets picked up by the OS, it starts
  executing.
- **Blocked**: Sometimes a program needs to access information from I/O devices.
  When this happens the OS blocks the process while it waits for the I/O
  devices to respond, so that other processes can keep running in the mean
  time.
- **Terminated**: When a process completes its work, it is marked as
  terminated, and the OS will deletes all of its allocated resources.

### Process Control Block (PCB)

In order to keep track of all this stages and other information about a process
there is a special data structure called *Process Control Block* (**PCB**).
Whenever a process is created the operating system creates a corresponding PCB.
In the PCB, we will store things like the program counter, the process number,
the registers the process is using, etc.

The PCB is stored on a protected memory area (usually at the beginning of the
kernel stack) since it contains important process information that other 
processes shouldn't have acces to.

### Change of context

Whenever a process gets blocked, we save the state of the processsor to the 
PCB. Then the scheduler decides which process will start execution. The
scheduler will pick a process on the Ready state based on a certain set of
criteria. Afterwards the picked process gets recovered from the ready state,
alongside the processsor state stored in its PCB, and the process starts
execution.

### Creating a process with the fork system call
If we want to create a new process from a running process we can use the system
call fork(). This function creates a copy of the process that called it.
```c
int result = fork();
if (result == 0) {
    printf("Child process, pid: %d", getpid());
} 
else if (result > 0) {
    printf("Parent process, pid: %d, parent of %d", getpid(), result);
}
```

**WARNING**: fork is non deterministic, whick means that sometimes it may run the
parent process first but not always, it depends on the scheduler.

### Wait
If we want the parent process to wait for the child to finish we can use the
system call wait(). This way our program becomes deterministic, it doesn't
matter how many times we run it, we will always get the same output.

```c
int result = fork();
if (result == 0) {
    printf("Child process, pid: %d", getpid());
} 
else if (result > 0) {
    wait(NULL);
    printf("Parent process, pid: %d, parent of %d", getpid(), result);
}
```

## Threads
